Conversational AI Engineer

We believe our people are our greatest asset and it is our goal to ignite the human potential for growth. We want you to grow and develop with us and recognize every career adventure is different, so we encourage you to build your own path.

OUTGROWN YOUR OWN BACKYARD? COME PLAY IN OURS

At Columbia, we’re as passionate about the outdoors as you are. And while our gear is available worldwide, we’re proud to be based in the Pacific Northwest, where natural wonders are our playground.
Every product we make and every task we undertake is inspired by the famous words of our founder Gert Boyle: “It’s perfect. Now make it better.” As pioneers of relentless improvement, we are constantly evolving.
We believe the outdoors is ours to protect and strive to keep our planet healthy. We believe in empowering people to experience the outdoors to the fullest.
And we believe in you.


ABOUT THE POSITION

Although we're an apparel and footwear focused company, technology is central to everything we do. Columbia Sportswear’s Consumer services technology team develops and manages system landscape(s) which enables us to serve our Consumers in most effective manner. This ensures our consumers’ delight and their loyalty to our products and Brands.
As Conversational AI Engineer, you will deliver and manage innovative and robust solutions in areas like Cognitive Contact Center and Consumer Self Service. These consumer service journeys will be built and managed across channels like- Voice, Chat, Web- self-service and Social.
You will work closely with the Consumer Services business and other technology teams to deliver innovative and robust solutions. Within this role you will rely on your analytical, Technical, professional, and organizational skills to implement and manage these solutions.


HOW YOU’LL MAKE A DIFFERENCE

Analyze, design, build and implement Conversational AI solutions using modern frameworks and cloud technologies
Execute against a backlog of User Stories and tasks within Agile tools
Utilize modern testing practices (TDD), deployment tools, and frameworks
Collaborate with mentors and other members of the team, in an Agile environment
Collaborate with Product Owner, Architects and Delivery Leads to design, develop and maintain Conversational AI solutions, Virtual assistants and Chatbots.
Lay the framework for Conversational AI using 24/7.ai and other systems which enable cognitive and machine learning capabilities.
Responsible for managing highly complex projects and ensuring change management to drive positive user experiences and engagement across disciplines.
Stay current with industry trends, conduct assessments, and provide recommendations for innovative technology solutions.

YOU ARE 

Able to communicate effectively, build relationships, and influence outcomes in a cross-functional, matrixed organization.
A proactive driver of continuous improvement opportunities across business processes and system solutions.
A relentless, versatile learner who is open to and embraces change, in an endeavor to enhance adaption of system solutions.
Able to persevere and overcome resistance or setbacks while pursuing innovation and Team goals with energy & drive.
Collaborative and knowledge sharing with a knack for stakeholder engagement.


YOU HAVE 

Bachelor’s Degree in Computer Science, Computer Engineering or Electrical Engineering and/or applied relevant experience in technology, or related fields.
3+ years of experience in implementing Enterprise Projects related to Information Technology
3+ years of any programing language experience, developing and implementing projects as per programming language coding standards
3+ of experience in AWS Lex/ [24]7.ai building Customer focused chat solutions
Experience in Cloud platforms like AWS and Amazon connect is a plus
At least 2 end to end Conversational AI project implementation experience is required.
Hands-on experience in working with Lambda, AWS Connect, Amazon Lex, AWS CLI, Kinesis, S3, RDS and other core AWS services and API Gateway
Implementation Experience with Services Architecture, standard AI, ML techniques and NLU.
Experience with monitoring solutions such as Cloud Watch, CloudTrail etc is desired.
Experience in Designing Chat invites and UI, Training single\multifold FAQ's and Transactional Intents.
Deliver (Chat, Text, Voice) user interface design documentation outlining backend interfaces to support business functionality and application development.
Experience working effectively with Data science, data processing, and software engineering teams.
Experience in configuring custom performance reports for Customer Care teams, Text analytics.
